>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so let's talk about
the pros of service-oriented systems,
right?
Now, again, my goals are not to just
be reiterating this to you guys,
but it's to hope that by now,
you see what I'm talking about.
You understand, and
it's just like obvious.
You probably didn't think this was obvious
at the beginning of this course, but
it should now,
it should be a lot more obvious.
So one of the first pros of doing
service-oriented design is independent
development.
Each service can be developed
independently by a team that is focused on
that service.
This is one of the biggest reasons why
companies move to
service-oriented architecture.
Because they wanna be able to say,
this team, you focus on this, this team,
you focus on that.
And at Hippo, we do the same thing.
We have teams that focus
on customer portal.
on lender agreements.
We have teams that focus on
different parts of the system.
And we don't have to worry about them.
Now, why you should watch my other
courses is because I show you
guys how you automate and deploy those
systems and serve those systems for
those teams, because that's
another challenge in its own.
Although you want these teams to
be able to independently develop,
the cycles should be the same, right?
We should all deploy
services the same way.
We should all configure
We should all have expectations
around how services run the same way.
Again, unless the architecture
is different for some reason,
that's how we build off
the shelf solutions.
And again, that's why I really do
recommend watching those courses,
because all of this plays together, right?
You design it, you build it.
You maintain it, but then you also figure
out how to automate it, how to deploy it,
how to scale it, right?
And all of it kind of glues together in
this cohesive architecture that you get to
build and maintain.
And if you do it right,
you enjoy it [LAUGH].
You actually don't hate it.
And that is what DevOps is for and that's
one of the main reasons why it is tough.
It is tough, I know a lot of
people who have built systems or
have worked on systems with distributed
services and gone this is a nightmare.
Like this sucks, there feels like
there's no design thought around this.
We just kind of threw a bunch
of services out there.
And even at Hippo, we definitely have
some of that technical debt as well.
And we're trying to get
better at improving it.
But if you do it right, the benefits of
independent development is remarkable.
It's a game changer for a company.
That means that teams can
easily work separated and
they don't have to think about
each other and what they're doing.
This one, however, is huge, okay?
Now, I have a story for this,
independent deployments.
Services can be deployed independently.
Up until about a year ago,
and if I give you guys PTSD,
I'm sorry, but
this is what I went through.
Up until about a year ago,
Hippo had to, every two weeks,
get together on a call with every team,
and we had deployment nights.
And we would sit on a call for
about five to six hours, and
we'd have a deployment leader.
It was like a raid in a dungeons and
dragons thing.
Somebody led the group into battle and
we went through the systems one by one.
Okay, go deploy your system.
Okay, go deploy your system and
I hated it.
I absolutely hated it.
The fact that we had our system so
tightly coupled meant that every time we
had to deploy, we had to get together.
Otherwise, if we didn't,
we could have cascading failures.
We wouldn't know where they came from.
And so it made more sense for us as
an organization to all sit on a slack
call and just go through the whole
process of deploying like 40 different
services from 10 to 20
different teams all at once.
It was terrible.
And these are like the days that shall not
be spoken of because we hated it so much.
But what we implemented to fix
this was something called FBR,
which is feature-based releases.
And the idea behind this was is we already
kind of had this service-oriented design,
but because we didn't have the confidence
in deploying it, we needed to fix that.
And so what we did was is we kind of
developed this process of like a bus.
The bus is going around
the school every day.
It's picking up kids,
it's dropping kids off.
And you can hop on that bus anytime.
And when you hop on that bus, that bus is
gonna go all the way to production, and
anybody on that bus can go with it.
And so, this feature-based release
made it so that we moved from a,
okay, everyone deploy all at once to,
okay, teams, you can deploy as
many times as you want during the day,
and you will not impact other systems.
And this independent deployment made our,
God, it's so much nicer.
It is, it's so much nicer.
It made a lot of people happy, just
genuinely happier because you don't have
to sit on a phone call until 8 o'clock,
9 o'clock, this was a thing.
Nobody has to stay up late anymore.
Nobody has to be worried about if
a deployment is gonna happen or
if it's gonna be bad.
And also what's really nice is it made our
deployments happened earlier in the day.
We didn't have to think about, well, let's
deploy that after hours just to be safe.
That disappeared.
A lot of that really disappeared.
And so now developers and teams can
easily deploy whenever they want.
And that deployment is just that
one little change of that commit.
Like it's literally just the commit and
the Docker build of that commit.
And they just drag it all
the way to production.
And it's literally like taking the
container and going, okay, you're in dev.
Okay, that looks good.
You're in staging, okay?
You're in prod copy, okay?
You're in prod.
And that separation of independent
deployment is really what made Hippo be
able to move a lot faster.
And honestly, even though the system
itself is something that we took probably
like a year in itself to be like, okay,
let's try and do something better.
It's still works fantastically.
And going back to the Kubernetes,
me trying or
my team trying to get us
to move to Kubernetes.
It was a hard sell to be like,
let's change this again,
because we already found
a solution that works so well,
that it was hard to be like, well,
let's find something even better, right?
And so independent deployments, if
you're at a company that has to do that,
that has to get together every week and
do deployments,
this should be one of your top priorities,
right?
You do not wanna have to worry about
other teams deploying with you and
are you gonna break
somebody else's components?
That's an architecture problem
that needs to be solved for.
>> Erik Reinert: And as we noted before,
fault isolation, right?
So we talked about services and
microservices being distributed.
The nice thing about it, as well,
is that you can Isolate failures and
things like that to specific services and
your outages don't become massive.
Again, if we talk about the monolith,
what happens if your front end goes down?
Everything goes down yeah,
it's everything.
It's not just your front end,
it's your back end.
It's everything, right?
And so
when we talk about having to worry about
fire drills at two o'clock in the morning,
right?
If we're not worried about one
specific component, you know what?
Let it be broken until the morning.
We'll fix it or we'll wait until the other
team in Poland or whatever hops on and
fixes it.
It's not as big of a fire, right?
And these two, oops, sorry.
Independent deployments and
fault isolation can make your
developers live so much better, right?
This is not just architecture, but
this is also developer experience.
You don't have to make your
developers go through the mud.
You can make, I like to say, you can have
nice things and we can have nice thing.
So this is why distributed is so
valuable, right?
But again, I want you guys to keep in your
mind when we talked about what and when.
It's still doesn't mean that
monoliths aren't valuable, right?
But hopefully this gives you
a better understanding of the real
differences between the two, right?
And then, this is really awesome as well.
Say you do have that one rogue team
that just wants to build Rust.
Yeah, you know what?
Go for it.
As long as you guys can maintain
your own systems and support it, and
you guys can plug into our existing stack.
Sure, go for it, right?
Nobody at a C level is gonna give
a crap if you're using Rust or Go.
[LAUGH] Nobody at the corporate
level is gonna care.
Nobody's gonna argue that.
So if you have a good argument, you have a
good solution and you have something that
works well and plays nicely with
everything else, then distributed systems
also gives more freedom to
the developers to do what they want.
And this can mean that you can try
innovating with new things easier, right?
In the scenario where you say,
you know what, let's try this one system,
maybe we'll try Elixir, or
maybe we'll try this other thing, right?
And I know for a fact, like again,
I know friends who work at Twitch and
other large companies like I do, and
they've talked about this as well,
that there's always this one weird
service that exists that is weird.
But they tried it, and
now we're just keeping it around.
And that's okay.
Those are welcome in this kind of
architecture as long as they're built with
the considerations around them.
So distributed definitely allows you to
have a much more diverse technology stack,
for sure.
So let's talk about cons, right?
And we've already kind of
talked about this, but
distributed system complexity, right?
Developers must deal with the additional
complexity of co-creating
a distributed system.
This means that developers might still
need to consider how other systems work.
They might need to also think
about how their systems plug and
play into the other systems.
Again, going back to the video of
the guy talking about everything jumping
around and all the complexity there,
this is a prime example of that, right?
If somebody adds something, and
then somebody adds something else, and
nobody thought about the other
three things that happened, and
they just add their own thing, now you've
got four levels of complexity, right?
Excuse me, one of the things that we did
at Hippo that I actually think was a bit
of a mistake is we made it so
that developers can pretty much create
their own services whenever they want.
But to the point where we kind of stopped
doing like approval processes and
things like that because we just wanted
developers to be agile and now we've got
a lot of challenges with that, like for
starters, development environments, right?
How do you create a development
environment when you've got 150
distributed services that all need
to be online, talking to each other,
know about routing,
know about service discovery?
That becomes really challenging.
And so in our case, we actually saw
the provisioning of development
environments in the cloud
go up by like 20 minutes.
Just because it's got to go through
every service, restart every service,
make sure it's got the latest Docker
image and all these other things.
And this is a big reason as to
why we wanna move to Kubernetes.
Because in Kubernetes, we can at
least describe them in namespaces,
we can just focus on containers versus
ECS, which is you need to have hosts,
you need to have clusters for
it, and all these other things.
And so, distributed system
complexity is out of the box,
gonna be a challenge you're gonna deal
with right away with distributed systems.
So being aware of that scale as
it's happening Is important.
>> Erik Reinert: Also with
distributed systems, development and
testing becomes a lot more difficult.
Like I just mentioned with things like
developer environments, testing locally.
Because we have such a distributed system,
we also have tons of repos.
For an example, at Hippo,
we probably have around
200 to 300 active repos, which is a lot.
And we've built tools that I even
talk about in the DevOps for
developers course,
like something we call Hippo Build.
So think about this, right?
Say you're a developer and
you wanna create a new service, but
you wanna create that new service
exactly like other services,
meaning you get the same
deployment pipelines.
You get the same configuration files, you
get the same workflows and everything, but
you wanna build it a different way.
Cool, just create a template, no big deal.
Awesome, what happens when
you need to update it?
What happens when you need to update
50 of those repos at once, right?
This is where that complexity really
becomes a challenge because you need
a tool that knows how to go out to
all those 50 repos, update them,
update their build configurations.
Here's a good example.
We were talking about Nix earlier,
Nix mentioned,
we were talking about Nix earlier, right?
What happens when I wanna move all
of our development flows to Nix?
That's 200 repos I have
to update with flakes and
other things to make that happen.
And so, how do you solve for that?
How do you batch update repos?
How do you batch update tests, right?
How do you batch update other things,
how do you make sure that all of these
components are being properly tested,
right?
What we ended up doing in Hippo was is we
started creating integration repositories
for service repositories.
So you'd have a service repository
like billing service, but
then you could also create a billing
service integration tests repo.
And so the billing service is in its own
repo and coupled with all of its logic,
but then the integration test repo
is all of the end to end testing,
reaching out to environments,
doing API calls and stuff like that.
But that means that
everything doubled [LAUGH].
So now we've got 80 repos for
40 services, right?
And so again, that complexity becomes
basically exponential with how
many services and
how many things you have.
So it definitely does make development and
testing much more difficult just because
of the fact that it's so distributed and
you have more things to think about.
Again, let's think about monoliths, and
then think about what I just described,
right?
Monolith's way easier.
You go one place, update one thing,
and you're done, right?
This is a bit more.
And again, data management is
also a big challenge here.
We talked about the databases and how if
they don't share databases, how do we make
sure that the data schemas match,
that they have the proper representations.
Well, what happens when you need
to first update a user table and
then update a payment table and
the payment request fails?
What do you do?
How do you fix that data inconsistency,
right?
It's things like that become much more
challenging when you have multiple
services that are distributed and
this is also something we deal at Hippo.
As a matter of fact,
I'm just giving you all of Hippo secrets.
As a matter of fact, one of the biggest
challenges we're dealing with today
is we have integration repos that talk
to the same services while they run.
So some integration repos talk to the same
services as other integration repos and
they have version mismatches.
And we literally have this error
now showing up a lot in our
integration reports where
it's saying version mismatch,
version mismatch, version mismatch.
The reason for that is because we're
running those things at the same time.
We're running both of those integration
tests at the same time, and
they're both trying to update user data or
mock data, but it's the same mock data.
So you have to be considerate of that.
You have to think about like, okay,
is this service going to touch or
impact the other service
as it's working as well?
And that consistency can
be really challenging.